M5L1HW1
Suppose you want to determine if an Ebola vaccine is effective. Suppose 10% of people get Ebola. 
Let p = fraction of vaccinated people who get Ebola. Define an appropriate null and alternative hypothesis. 
What type of hypothesis is the alternative?
Answer : Lower one-sided alternative hypothesis

M5L1HW2
A new cell phone chip vendor needs to prove that they are producing no more than 0.1% defective chips. 
Let p = fraction of defective chips produced by the new vendor. Define an appropriate null and alternative hypothesis. 
What type of hypothesis is the alternative?
Answer : Lower one-sided alternative hypothesis

M5L1HW3
You want to determine if the average home price in Katy, Texas, is different than the average home price in Spr,ing Texas. 
Define appropriate null and alternative hypothesses. What type of hypothesis is the alternative?
Answer : Two-sided alternative hypothesis

M5L2HW1
Suppose you want to determine if an Ebola vaccine is effective.
In the previous lesson, you set up an appropriate null and alternative hypothesis and determined the type of hypothesis. 
Now, describe the Type I and Type II error and the form of the critical region.
If we conclude the vaccine is not effective when it is actually effective, we have made a:
Answer : Type II error.

M5L2HW2
A cell phone chip vendor needs to prove that they are producing at most 0.1% defective chips. 
In the previous lesson, you set up an appropriate null and alternative hypothesis and determined the type of hypothesis. 
Now, describe the Type I and Type II error and the form of the critical region.
If we conclude the chips produced are acceptable when they are not, we have made a:
Answer : Type I error.

M5L2HW3
You want to determine if the average home price in Katy, Texas, is different than the average home price in Spring, Texas. 
In the previous lesson, you set up an appropriate null and alternative hypothesis and determined the type of hypothesis. 
Now, describe the Type I and Type II error and the form of the critical region.
If we conclude mean home prices in the two cities are the same when they are actually different, we have made a:
Answer : Type II error. 

M5L3HW1
The average test score in the state of Texas is 75. A sample of 400 Dylan High School students yielded x-bar = 73 and s = 30. 
For α = 0.05, would you conclude that Dylan students score significantly different than the state of Texas? 
What p-value would you report?
What do you conclude?
Answer : We fail to reject Ho; the p-value is 0.18

M5L3HW2
Suppose a can of soda is supposed to contain 12 ounces of soda. 
A random sample of 100 cans taken by the state of Washington yields x-bar = 11.9 and s = 0.2 ounces. For α=0.01,
should the state conclude that soda cans are underfilled? What p-value would you report?
What do you conclude?
Answer : We reject Ho; the p-value is 0.00

M5L3HW3
The current version of the XOXO tire average lasts 40,000 miles before wearing out. 
The tire has been redesigned, and 100 tires were tested. 
The number of miles the tires lasted had x-bar = 41,000 and s = 10,000. 
For α=0.10, would you conclude that the redesign has improved tire life? What p-value would you report?
What do you conclude?
Answer : We fail to reject Ho; the p-value is 0.1587

M5L4HW1
The average test score in the state of Texas is 75. A sample of 25 Dylan High School students yielded x-bar = 74 and s = 5. 
For α = 0.05, would you conclude that Dylan students score significantly different than the state of Texas? 
What p-value would you report? Assume test scores follow a normal random variable.
What do you conclude?
Answer : We fail to reject Ho; the p-value is 0.327

M5L4HW2
Suppose a can of soda is supposed to contain 12 ounces of soda. 
A random sample of 10 cans taken by the state of Washington yi-elds xbar = 11.9 and s = 0.2 ounces. 
For α = 0.01, should the state conclude that soda cans are underfilled? What p-value would you report? 
Assume ounces of soda in a can follow a normal random variable.
What do you conclude?
Answer : We fail to reject Ho; the p-value is 0.07

M5L4HW3
The current version of the XOXO tire average lasts 40,000 miles before wearing out.
The tire has been redesigned, and 20 tires were tested. The number of miles the tires lasted had xbar = 41,000 and s = 2,000. 
For α = 0.10, would you conclude that the redesign has improved tire life? What p-value would you report? 
Assume tire mileage follows a normal random variable.
What do you conclude?
Answer : We reject Ho; the p-value is 0.01

M5L5HW1
A cell phone chip vendor needs to prove to the government that they are producing at most 1% defective chips. 
Let p = fraction of vendor’s chips that are defective. Suppose Ho: p less than or equal to .01 and Ha: p greater than .01. 
That is, the government assumes the vendor is OK unless proven otherwise. In a sample of 500 chips from a large population, 
suppose 10 were defective.
For α = 0.05, would you accept or reject Ho?
What do you conclude?
Answer : We reject Ho; the p-value is 0.0311

M5L5HW2
A basketball player has a long history of making 70% of his free throws. Early in the season, she has made 180 of 300 free throws. 
Does this provide sufficient evidence (for α=0.05) that the player's free throw shooting ability has changed?
What do you conclude?
Answer : We reject Ho, the p-value is 0.0003. The shooting ability has changed.

M5L5HW3
In the court case Castaneda vs. Partida before the Supreme Court, 
the facts were that 79% of the people in Hidalgo County, Texas, had Spanish surnames 
but only 339 of 870 jurors selected had Spanish surnames. 
The Supreme Court used statistics to conclude that the jury process was unfair and underrepresented those with Spanish surnames.
What do you conclude?
Answer : Jury selection is underrepresented.

M5L6HW1
Use the data on annual stock and Tbill returns (provided in JulyVariancesHW.xlsx)
to determine if Stocks and Tbills returns have equal variance. Use α = 0.05.
Answer : The variances are not equal.

M5L6HW2
Use the data on annual stock and 10 year bond returns (provided in JulyVariancesHW.xlsx) 
to determine if Stocks and Bonds10 returns have equal variance. Use α = 0.05.
Answer : The variances are not equal.

M5L6HW3
You are given the total number of block shots and steals for 14 college basketball teams during 4 games. 
Determine if steals and block shots have equal variance. Use α = 0.01.
Answer : The variances are equal.

M5L7HW1
Use the given data on annual Tbills and 10 year bond returns (provided in Problem 1 of JulyTwoPopMeansHW.xlsx) 
to determine if Tbills and Bonds10 returns have equal means. Use α = 0.05. The returns in each row are NOT from the same year.
Answer : Means are equal

M5L7HW2
You are given the amount of money spent at a supermarket by a sample of shoppers during the morning and afternoon hours 
(provided in Problem 2 of JulyTwoPopMeansHW.xlsx). 
For α = 0.05, does this data indicate that morning shoppers spend less than afternoon shoppers?
Answer : The p-value is 0.01, so you conclude that the average spent by morning customers is less than the average spent by afternoon customers 

M5L7HW3
You are given the miles per gallon obtained for 20 cars using gasoline and ethanol (provided in Problem 3 of JulyTwoPopMeansHW.xlxs). 
For α = 0.01, does this data indicate that there is a significant difference in the MPG cars obtain when fueled by ethanol or gasoline?
Answer : The p-value is 0.8200, so fail to reject that the average mileage does not depend on whether gas or ethanol is used.

M5L8HW1
Based on the data given JulyChi-SquaredHW.xlsx, for α = 0.05, 
would you conclude that private and public school students have different tastes in music?
Answer : We fail to reject the null hypothesis; students at public and private schools have the same taste in music.

M5L8HW2
Based on the data given in the file JulyChi-SquaredHW.xlsx, for α = 0.05, 
would you conclude that the quality of the cell phone chips depends on where they are made?
Answer : We fail to reject the null hypothesis; there is no significant difference in quality of chips produced at the three plants. 

M5L8HW3
Based on the data given in Problem 3 of JulyChi-SquaredHW.xlsx, for α = 0.05, 
would you conclude there is a significant difference in the performance of the drugs?
Answer : Drug 2 is more effective.


Module 5 Quiz

M5Q1
Suppose you have the following hypotheses:
Ho: A die is fair
Ha: A die is not fair
We toss a die 6 times, and reject Ho if >=4 results are 5 or 6. The chance of making a Type I Error is:
Answer : 0.10

M5Q2
Let p be a population proportion. If Ho: p = 0.2 and Ha: p ≠ 0.2, what type of hypothesis test would we perform?
Answer : Two-sided alternative hypothesis

M5Q5
Residents of Hawkins, Indiana, believe something has affected the growth of adult males. 
Let µ = average height of an adult male born in Hawkins, Indiana.
The city wants to test Ho: µ = 69 inches against Ha: µ ≠ 69 inches. 
A random sample of 36 males born in Hawkins yields xbar = 67.5 and s = 4. For α = 0.05, what do you conclude?
Answer : We reject Ho, meaning that the average height is NOT 69 inches.

M5Q9
Residents of Hawkins, Indiana, believe something has stunted the growth of adult males. 
Let µ = average height of an adult male born in Hawkins, Indiana. 
The city wants to test Ho: µ = 69 inches against Ha: µ ≠ 69 inches. 
A random sample of 16 males born in Hawkins yields xbar = 66.5 and s = 4. For α = 0.05, what do you conclude? 
Assume the relevant population follows a normal random variable.
Answer : We reject Ho, meaning that the average height is NOT 69 inches.

M5Q11
Let p = fraction of shots taken from right side of the court when the rebound is grabbed on the right side of the court. 
Of 110 missed shots from the right side of the court, 65 were rebounded on the right side of the court. 
For α = 0.05, Ho: p = 0.5, and a two-tailed test, what would you conclude?
Answer : We fail to reject Ho, meaning that there is NO difference in shots made from the expected proportion.

M5Q15
The Module5QuizData_HudsonHighSchool.xlsx spreadsheet contains the income of randomly selected families 
whose students attend Hudson and Cedar Falls High Schools. 
For α = 0.05, what would you conclude about the variances of family incomes at the two schools?
Assume family incomes are normally distributed at each school.
Answer : The variances are equal.

M5Q16
The Module5QuizData_HudsonHighSchool.xlsx spreadsheet contains the income of randomly selected families 
whose students attend Hudson and Cedar Falls High Schools. 
You want to test Ho: Hudson mean income = Cedar Falls mean income against Ha: Hudson mean income ≠ Cedar Falls mean income. 
For α = 0.05, what do you conclude?
Answer : We fail to reject Ho, because the p-value is 0.24.

M5Q17
The Module5QuizData_Drugs.xlsx spreadsheet contains the reduction in cholesterol resulting
from a random sample of people taking Drug A and Drug B. 
You want to test Ho: mean reduction in cholesterol from Drug A = mean reduction in cholesterol 
from Drug B against Ha: mean reduction in cholesterol from Drug A ≠ mean reduction in cholesterol from Drug B. 
For α = 0.05, what would you conclude?
Answer : We reject Ho, meaning that there is a difference in cholesterol reduction between the drugs.

M5Q18
The Module5QuizData_Process.xlsx spreadsheet contains the amount (in pounds) of a drug produced for 100 days using Process A 
and the amount of a drug (in pounds) produced using Process B on a different set of 100 days.
You want to test Ho: mean pounds produced in a day with Process A = mean pounds produced in a day with Process B 
against Ha: mean pounds produced in a day with Process A ≠ mean pounds produced in a day with Process B. For α = 0.05, what would you conclude?
Answer : We fail to reject Ho, meaning that there is NO difference in production rates.
