Defining Data

M1L1HW1
Classify the data type and scale of measurement for the following variable: your favorite fast food chain
Classify the data type:
Answer : Categorical

Classify the scale of measurement:
Answer : Nominal

M1L1HW2
Classify the data type and scale of measurement for the following variable: your shoe size
Classify the data type:
Answer : Numerical

Classify the scale of measurement:
Answer : Discrete

M1L1HW3
Classify the data type and scale of measurement for the following variable: a company's percentage profit margin
Classify the data type:
Answer : Numerical

Classify the scale of measurement:
Answer : Continuous

M1L1HW4
Classify the data type and scale of measurement for the following variable: 
Level of education: Some High School, High School Graduate, Some College, College Graduate
Classify the data type:
Answer : Categorical

Classify the scale of measurement:
Answer : Ordinal

M1L2HW1
Using the IQ data in the Problem 1 sheet of the homework spreadsheet, create a histogram with 15 bins. 
Group people with IQs less than or equal to 55 into one bin and those greater than 145 into another. 
The remaining bins should be of equal size.
Your histogram indicates that IQs are:
Answer : symmetric

M1L2HW2
Using the data in the Problem 2 sheet of the homework spreadsheet, create a histogram for gold returns with 7 bins. 
Group year with a return less than or equal to -20% into one bin, and years with returns greater than 120% into a separate bin. 
The remaining bins should be of equal size.
Your histogram indicates that annual gold returns:
Answer : positively skewed

M1L2HW3
Construct histograms for REIT, gold, and bond returns.
Based on these histograms, which order represents the spread about the mean from largest to smallest?
Answer : Gold, REIT, Bonds

M1L3HW1
Using the data in the Problem 1 sheet of the homework spreadsheet, complete the following tasks and answer the following questions.
Identify all outliers for REIT returns to answer the following question. 
Calculate this using the Rule of Thumb method that Wayne covers in the video in this lesson. 
Do not use any other approach as it may result in the incorrect answer.
In what year(s) is the REIT return an outlier? Select all that apply.
Answers : 
1. 1974
2. 2008

M1L3HW2
Using the data in the Problem 2 sheet of the homework spreadsheet, complete the following tasks and answer the following questions.
Calculate the daily percentage returns for the Dow Index to answer the following questions.
What was the 3rd largest return, rounded to the nearest first decimal?
Answer : 6.8%

What was the 2nd lowest daily percentage return, rounded to the nearest first decimal?
Answer : -7.7%

1% of the daily percentage returns are greater than or equal to what percentage, rounded to the nearest first decimal?
Answer : 3.3%

The September 17, 2007 return ranks in what percentile of all daily returns in the given data set, rounded to the nearest first decimal?
Answer : 5.3%

M1L3HW3
Using the annual revenues for Microsoft in the Problem 3 sheet of the homework spreadsheet, 
calculate the compound annual growth rate to answer the following question.
Given the annual revenues for Microsoft, what is the CAGR?
Answer : 7.8%

M1L4HW1
This question uses the Question 1 Worksheet. 
Create a boxplot for the 1971 Draft Lottery and use this boxplot to answer the following question.
Has the problem with the 1970 Draft Lottery that Wayne discussed in this lesson appear to have been resolved?
Answer : Yes

M1L4HW2
This set of questions uses the Question 2 Worksheet. Given annual returns on REITS, bonds, and gold, create a boxplot to visualize 
the distribution of annual returns for REITS, gold, and bonds, and answer the following questions.
Which investment class has the largest median annual return?
Answer : REITS

Which investment has the largest mean annual return?
Answer : REITS

Which investment’s annual returns are the most positively skewed?
Answer : Gold

M1L4HW3
This set of questions uses the Question 3 Worksheet. You are given the math and reading scores for a representative sample of 
5th graders in US, Finland, and South Korea. 
Construct a boxplot to summarize this data, and use the boxplot to answer the following questions.
Note: To make the legend showing which color is 'reading' and which color is 'math' appear, 
you may have to click (when inside boxplot) on the Design tab, 
and choose 'Legend' from the 'Add Chart Element' icon in the upper left-hand corner.

In which country does the typical student perform best on reading?
Answer : Finland

The reading and math scores in each country are...
Answer : Symmetric

True or False: Math scores in both the US and Finland are more variable than reading scores.
Answer : True

M1L5HW1
This question uses the Question 1 Worksheet. You are given the colors of 500 European cars. 
Create a column and pie chart to answer the following questions.
What is the most common color of car?
Answer : White

What is the least common color of car?
Answer : Green

M1L5HW2
This question uses the Question 2 Worksheet. You are given the populations of the 50 US States, Washington DC, and Puerto Rico. 
Create a column and pie chart that summarizes the number of locations that have populations in the following ranges: 
0-5 million, 5-10 million, etc.

Which population range has the most number of locations?
Answer : 0 - 5 million

How many locations have populations over 20 million?
Answer : 3

M1L5HW3
This question uses the Question 3 Worksheet. To answer the questions below, 
create a PivotTable or PivotChart that calculates the percentage of patients that live or die at each hospital for each risk category.
Create an additional PivotTable or PivotChart that calculates the overall percentage of patients that live or die at each hospital 
regardless of their risk category.

Which hospital has a higher percentage of survival for high risk patients?
Answer : ER

Which hospital has a higher percentage of survival for low risk patients?
Answer : ER

Which hospital has a higher percentage of survival for low risk patients?
Answer : CH

M1L6HW1
To answer the following questions, review the charts provided in the Question 1 Worksheet that summarize sales revenue 
at an appliance store.

Which product group generates the most revenue?
Answer : Electronics

Which product generates the most revenue?
Answer : TV

M1L6HW2
To answer the following questions, create a Treemap and Sunburst chart that summarizes the student enrollment data 
classified by school and major provided in the Question 2 Worksheet.

Which school has the most students?
Answer : COAS

What is the most popular major?
Answer : Social Sciences

M1L6HW3
To answer the following question, create Sunburst and Treemap charts to summarize the supermarket sales by product 
and product group data provided in the Question 3 Worksheet.
Which product generated the most revenue?
Answer : Raisin Bran cereal

M1L7HW1
This question is based on the dataset in the Question 1 Worksheet.
Create a Pareto chart to summarize the revenue ranking of your customers.
You may find it help it helpful to widen the graph.
Does the 80-20 rule appear to hold in this situation?
Answer : Yes

M1L7HW2
This question is based on the dataset in the Question 2 Worksheet. You are given the reasons employees are late to work. 
Summarize the data in a Pareto Chart to answer the following question.
Which causes together account for approximately 70% of all employee tardiness?
Answer : Traffic and Subway


Module 1 Quiz

M1Q1
You know that a student’s class is Freshman, Sophomore, Junior, or Senior.
The scale of measurement for student’s class variable is:
Answer : Ordinal

M1Q2
You have the following data in your data set. Identify the data type and scale of measurement for each.
Level in Job Role (Entry, Intermediate, Expert)
Data Type:
Answer : Discrete

Scale of Measurement:
Answer : Ordinal

Income (Selected from a range of options, such as less than $50,000, $50,000-$100,000, etc.)
Data Type:
Answer : Categorical

M1Q3
Using the data in Module 1_Quiz Data_Stocks.xlsx, answer the following question.
What is the skewness of IBM stock returns rounded to the nearest 3 decimal places?
Answer : -.685

M1Q4
Using the data in Module 1_Quiz Data_Stocks.xlsx, answer the following question.
Which stock exhibits the least variability?
Answer : GE

M1Q5
Using the data in Module 1_Quiz Data_Stocks.xlsx, answer the following question.
How many of the Intel returns are outliers? Use the rule of thumb as described by Wayne. 
Do not create a box plot to determine the answer.
Answer : 7

M1Q6
Using the data in Module 1 Quiz Data_Stocks.xlsx, answer the following question.
The 95%ile of 3M monthly returns is approximately:
Answer : 11.1%

M1Q8
Calculate the average rate of return for each of the stocks in Module 1_Quiz CAGR.xlsx file since 2007.
Which stock had the lowest rate of return?
Answer : IBM

M1Q9
Using the data in Module 1_Quiz Data_BoxPlot.xlsx, create a box plot and then answer the following question.
Which stock’s monthly returns has the highest median? Base your response on the visualization.
Answer : Dell

M1Q10
How would you describe the distribution of the data in the histogram above?
Answer : Negatively skewed

M1Q12
Using the data in Module 1_Quiz Data_Pareto.xlsx, create a Pareto Chart illustrating the complaints 
that your organization has received over the last 6 months, and then answer the following question.
Based on the Pareto chart, what would you recommend that your organization focus on to drive increased customer satisfaction? 
Choose all that apply.
Answers : 
1. Parking
2. Sales rude

M1Q13
The table in Module 1_Quiz Data_Income.xlsx shows the mean and median income for Americans over several years.
In which of the following years was the typical American doing the worst financially?
Answer : 2012
